---
layout: post
title: The Phoenix Project
date: 2026-04-09
categories:
  - Workflows
  - Organizational
  - Management
description:
---
## Overview

I recently read "The Phoenix Project" - by Gene Kim, Kevin Behr, and George Spafford, and hot damn is it an eye opener. The book follows Bill, an IT manager who has been tasked as VP of IT Operations during a major deployment for his company dubbed: Project Phoenix. Bill, in his journey, learns just how dysfunction his organization is when it comes to IT workloads. Other organizational units hate the department because, in their minds, IT is constantly a wall to getting their work done. From a board member, he learns that manufacturing workflows are surprisingly similar to IT workflows, and we can take some methodologies from LEAN and AGILE manufacturing to improve our own workflows in IT.

## The Four Kinds of Work

One of the first things that Bill has to learn on his journey is the four different kinds of work you find in IT. Each of these categories represents a different organizational responsibility to IT, and some kinds of work it turns out are hazardous for others!

1. **Business Projects** - These are the things that the business asks IT to do. Imaging devices, deploying applications, requested training, all projects visible to the business.
2. **Internal IT Projects** - These are projects that keeps IT running at the end of the day. Internal documentation, infrastructure installation and management, internal tooling, all things that IT people do for other IT people.
3. **Changes** - Any modification to systems or processes already generated by the first two. Updating a KB article, installing a new version of an application, firmware updates, all changes to systems and infrastructure that is already in place.
4. **Unplanned Work** - This is the spooky one, this is the kind of work that devours your capability to do all other kinds of work. 

Everyone who's ever worked in IT is, at this point, either going "well duh" or "holy shit". Once you understand the different kinds of work that you might encounter in your environment, you can start to understand the dysfunction in your organization. Usually, dysfunction in IT is caused by faulty processes, lack of organizational visibility, and a lack of true support structure. The reason? Every single one of these things leads to unplanned work. No process behind event approval? Well, suddenly you've received a ticket about an event occurring in 2 days, with a series of requests you can't fulfill. Nobody knows what you do, or how you can help them? Many won't submit tickets, they'll wait until things are dire, or they will grab you in the hallway and pull you off whatever task you were already busy with. Nobody in the organization has your back? Suddenly, you have to accept every crazy, zany request that any department might make. 

So, what's the solution? How do you reduce unplanned work, and ensure that the planned work you are doing is moving down the work pipeline?

## The Three Ways

The Three Ways is a framework by which you approach the concept of work. The goal, at the end of the day, is to reduce WIP (Work In Progress). WIP is work that is stuck within the work pipeline, and as WIP accrues, deliverable times and shareholder satisfaction drops. In order to reduce WIP, you first need to understand your system. Then, you need to be able to receive feedback from said system to see where the stress points are. And finally, you must be ready to constantly learn, experiment, and adapt by pairing a culture of adaptability with tension in the system.

1. **The First Way: Flow** - This is about optimizing the left-to-right movement of work. From a request all the way through to delivery. The point is to engage in system level thinking, and to understand your work pipeline from a high level. Some common practices include small batch sizes, catching defects in flow early, limiting WIP, and optimizing for organizational goals rather than solely local goals.
2. **The Second Way: Feedback** - This is about creating fast, constant feedback loops flowing right-to-left, from the customer or workstation  back to wherever the faulty work was made. As soon as a problem with a workflow is detected, it should be fixed immediately rather than implementing workarounds.
3. **The Third Way: Continual Learning and Experimentation** - Formalizing continuous improvement. Teams push their systems' limits intentionally by introducing tension. This forces errors to surface *before* they crop up in the wild, allowing IT to be proactive rather than reactive. 

Each of the three ways builds on one another sequentially. Before you can introduce feedback from your system, you need to understand your system else it's all just noise. And before you can be ready to learn and experiment, you need to receive standardized feedback from your system or you're just guessing at what to improve. It's *especially* important to identify, and then fortify and protect, your flow bottlenecks.

## What I learned

First and foremost, I learned that everyone else is experiencing the exact same bullshit. Institutional process failing, not hearing feedback, and a lack of a desire to change what's already in play lead to stagnating failing organizations. The people inside them all feel it, and nobody knows exactly why they're so on edge, but it can all be traced back to organizational mismanagement. Properly manage the organization, ensure that all relevant parties are working towards effecting the same goal, and you have a recipe for success.

All of this is effected by implementing "The Three Ways" at a high, organizational level. Operational obscurity seems to be a chief obstacle to implementing the three ways, as many organizations have a lack of standards when it comes to organizational coordination. They think they have it, but they have no way of knowing they do because they are blind to the systems at play. It takes broad coordination across multiple internal groups to achieve these ends, and I think these devops frameworks ought be made common across your organization in order to improve operation efficiency, morale, and creating a good product.

I have worked at organizations that have broad capabilities internally, but due to this systems obscurity, have failed to fully capitalize on that. Systems and processes that could be properly managed internally are either sought from vendors, or more often improperly managed internally. I've had coworkers from another IT part of the organization push policy to my local environment that just didn't work, even after being told they were standard deployments. When I ask questions, offer to help, throw up documentation, I was oftentimes met with silence, or inconsistency. This all lead me to view time and time again the same pattern of broad organizational mismanagement. What you must do as a technician is; your best work, seek out feedback for your group where you can, and fight for a proper implementation of The Three Ways where you can!