---
layout: post
title: Hello!
date: 2026-04-08
categories:
  - Introduction
description: Just a little hello, from me to you
---
I have created this small website as something to try and motivate myself with. I have a desire to learn as much as I absolutely can, but also a desire to do it right. It leads to a lot of burnout when I engage in these desires irresponsibly, as you might imagine. So, here's to turning a new leaf, and setting up a little structure.
## Introduction

Hi, I'm stonbit, an IT technician who got into the game for the love of the game. That is, the love of video games! I am still honestly shocked at how much technical knowledge I absorbed through osmosis while gaming. My first helpdesk job, I remember being so proud of myself for being able to find the appdata\roaming folder through the run dialogue by typing %appdata%. This was arcane knowledge I had acquired while doing the impossible: modding tornadoes into Minecraft *(hell yeah!)*

A love of video games quickly turned into a love for technology in general. Once I got my first computer, my very own computer, my fate was sealed. The old piece of shit couldn't even run Minecraft at anything more than 15 fps with the render distance turned down to the absolute minimum. This was before my modding days you see, when I got the absolute worst thing you could possibly receive as a present: a chromebook. But, that lowly piece of shit taught me an invaluable lesson: even the worst piece of technology can enrich your life, if you learn how to use it.

I think a lot of techs have similar origin stories. If you have the rare and exciting opportunity to work with an absolute piece of shit as one of your first personal computing experiences, you should take it. There's something special about that mixture that makes you adaptable, and gives you a hunger to learn. Eventually, that hunger will give way to an understanding that knowledge, especially when it comes to technology, truly is power. The more you know about a system, the better you understand it, the more control you can exert over it.

I recently read "The Phoenix Project" - by Gene Kim, Kevin Behr, and George Spafford. I think one of the most important takeaways, not just for devops but for life in general, is the Third Way. Continual learning and experimentation, a desire to take risk, to fail, and to learn from those failures. "Adding tension into the system" as they say. One can never get too comfortable with the knowledge they've acquired, nor should they be comfortable with their own ignorance.  Instead of fighting the chromebook, understand the chromebook. Become one with the chromebook, and use that deep understanding to force it to be just a little less shitty.

On that rambling note (get used to it, I'm a rambler), I hope to use this site as a repository of my journey in Tech. My ultimate desire is offensive security research. Reading about the likes of stuxnet, notpetya, wannacry, and all those other nasty, devastating computer weapons  has me itching to get a foothold in this world.
